# Orientation Planning 
There are many moving parts in the ITS Orientation day that need to be organized, all of which need to be conducted in a timely manner. Here are the steps necessary to creating a successful orientation day. 
* Set a date. It is important to select a date and time that will work best for the interns, the supervisors, and the planning team. The date should be at least a week after what is typically finals week at most colleges. The majority of interns are college students. The program needs to give them time to move to Ann Arbor or a reasonable commuting distance from campus and prepare for the start of the internship.
* Reserve a location. The ITS Internship accepts a little over 60 interns. Including the planning team, supervisors, and cohort project sponsors, the space should be able to hold roughly 150 to 200 people. It is also important to reserve a space where parking is available nearby and is reasonably close to the University of Michigan Ann Arbor campus.
* Arrange Catering. Orientation is an all day event, so everyone in attendance should have access to food at least twice during the day. At the beginning of orientation coffee, donuts, and bagels can be provided as a kind of “grab and go” breakfast. This can be preordered the day of a few days before orientation so that it can be picked up in the morning. Lunch catering should also be planned a few days in advance of the orientation. Cold food would be preferable so there isn’t a time limit on grabbing lunch. Sandwiches are a good option as they can be easily bought and set up in bulk. Going to a grocery store and getting a few boxes of snack like foods such as chips and cookies as well as several cases of water or juice.
* Send an email. Make sure everyone who is supposed to be in attendance at orientation receives an email about the event. This should include the date, time, and location of the orientation as well as parking details. Interns, supervisors, and cohort sponsors should all receive separate emails about their roles at orientation. Interns should be aware of how long they should expect to be there, the dress code, and who they should expect to meet and network with. Cohort sponsors should know what to bring in order to advertise their project to the incoming interns.
* Arrive early. The orientation subcommittee should arrive at the event early in case any other interns or supervisors decide to arrive before the start of the orientation. The people planning the event should be there and prepared so no one is confused as to where they are supposed to be once the event starts.
